Lala Rente Maintenance
  Management Portal

                         Basic Process Steps

                           14 August 2025
                               Version 1
Basic Maintenance Management Process
(Corrective Work)

∑ Raising a Notification ≠ Notification will be the term used to identify that
  there is a problem. Raising is synonymous will raising a flag which will have
  a unique identity.

∑ Acknowledging the Notification ≠ Validation of the problem and taking
  action.

∑ Pushing to dedicated vendors ≠ Allocating work to the approved vendors.
∑ Issue Purchase Orders ≠ Securing the work to vendor. A formal contract

  between 2 parties.
∑ Execute Work ≠ Actively resolving the problem by using materials and

  labour.
∑ Closing Work ≠ Validation of work completed, recording historical data and

  completion of administration.
Basic Process Steps in Maintenance
Management System

 Raising a      Acknowledging        Push to
Notification    the notification    Dedicated
                                     Vendors

Issue Purchase  Execute Work        Close Work
     Order
Raising a Notification

∑ Tenant Logs on to Lala Rente App
∑ Tenant Uploads as many photos, videos and texts describing the problem.
∑ Notification Format

     ∑ Date, Time
     ∑ Location of Problem
     ∑ Time of problem
     ∑ Description of problem
     ∑ Consequence of problem
     ∑ Priority of Problem (Low, Medium High)

∑ Notification is registered on the tenant portal. Tenant can view the notification as
  to how it was loaded above.

∑ There must be some sort of autogenerated numbering system. This number will
  stay open (RED) until it is closed.
Acknowledging the Problem

∑ Notification pops up on the APP of the landlord
∑ Landlord reviews the notification.
∑ Landlord then selects the vendors on the vendor list. He then pushes the same

  notification to the vendors. This can be pushed via 3 methods (Whats Up, SMS, Email)
∑ Response from vendor to be:

     ∑ YES I can respond to call.
     ∑ NO I cannot respond to call
     ∑ If YES, (Within the same business day, 24 hrs, within the week, Next week, after next week)
     ∑ Pricing Estimate NO (Site visit necessary)
     ∑ Pricing Estimate YES (Site visit not necessary)

             ∑ 0 ≠ 1500
             ∑ 1500 ≠ 2500
             ∑ 2500 ≠ 5000
             ∑ > 5000
Issue the PO

∑ Vendors will respond based on the criteria listed above step
∑ Landord must select the vendor that has met the criteria
∑ Once selected, an automatically generated PO number will be issued.

 This Purchase order is a reference on to which any payments made is
 recorded to this purchase order.
∑ More than 1 vendor can be linked to the same purchase order. This is
 in case a plumber and an electrician needs to be called out for the
 same problem.
∑ Standard format of Purchase or TBD.
∑ Notification number of the tenant to be linked to PO.
Execute Work ≠ Scheduling of Work Window

∑ Calendar and Appointment System to be used for scheduling work.
∑ The tenant will get a notification that the PO has been issued to a

 vendor. Landlord gets the same.
∑ Some innovative scheduling system is to be developed for this. This is

 to initiated by the tenant showing availability on the calendar. Once
 available slots are shown, this is then pushed to vendor.
∑ Vendor then selects the timeslot. Appointment is then confirmed.
Execute Work ≠ Site Assessment

∑ 3 Stages of Assessment

    ∑ Work can be done Immediately
    ∑ More resources (spares, time, people) are needed. This will be arranged

      within the day and work can be done.
    ∑ Work is extended. Some work can be done now and the balance needs to be

      done at agreed durations.

∑ Pricing estimate is also done.

    ∑ Call Out
    ∑ Spares
    ∑ Materials

∑ Vendor then updates the APP.
Execute Work ≠ Acceptance of Price and
Time

∑ Vendor Pushes notification on Time and Price.

∑ Selection is made on which cost this is to be booked (Landlord or
 Tenant)

∑ Acceptance is to be made which ever party is selected.

∑ Once this is done, the landlord/ tenant commits to the price and the
 timeframe the work is to be done.

∑ Vendor also has to complete the work within the timeframe and price
 quoted.
Execute Work

∑ Vendor is to take photos and videos of the as found
∑ Vendor is to take photos and videos of what was done.
∑ Standard Format to be created whereby the vendor needs to write a

 report detailing the following information

    ∑ Date Time
    ∑ Description of Problem
    ∑ What was done
    ∑ Testing and Validation of work done.
    ∑ Manhours Used
    ∑ Materials Used
Close Work ≠ Reports of Work Done

∑ The work is completed.
∑ Photos and Videos and report of the completed work is to be

 uploaded via the app. This gets stored in the database.
∑ Both Landlord and Tenant will get a notification with the PDF report

 of what was done.
Close Work - Invoicing

∑ Standard Format to be created detailing the following

    ∑ Call Out Fee
    ∑ Labour Hours and Rate
    ∑ Materials Used
    ∑ Transport Costs
    ∑ Admin Costs
    ∑ Any other costs (to be described)
Close Work ≠ Payment & Archiving of Data

∑ Payment is to be done via Pay snap to Vendor
∑ Notification to be sent to all parties that payment is made.
∑ Expenses is to be logged against the property
∑ History is logged.
Planned Work

∑ Planned Work needs to happen on a property from time to time.
 Landlords and tenants normally forget about this.

∑ This ends up becoming corrective work if not done timeously. This
 then becomes more costly.

∑ This feature is to be added to the property as reminders to activities
 that need to be done on the property. Ex...yearly airconditioning
 maintenance and servicing.
Planned Work Examples

    ∑ Pest Control
    ∑ Aircon Maintenance and Servicing
    ∑ Drain Cleaning and Gutter Cleaning
    ∑ Internet and Connectivity
    ∑ Electrical Compliance Check
    ∑ Roofing and Structural Checks
    ∑ Plumbing and Storm Water
    ∑ Gas Compliance
    ∑ Fire Protection and Monitoring
Planned Work - Other Services

These are services that can be added to the property for automatic
notifications and payment.

    ∑ Garden Services
    ∑ Cleaning Services
    ∑ Maid Service
    ∑ Laundry Service
    ∑ Cook/Chef/BBQ/Waiter Service
